Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So in the previous tutorial, we prepared
the training set and the test set, and today
in this quick tutorial we're gonna get the total number
of users and movies.
So why do we need to do that?
Well, that is because of what we're gonna do
in the next tutorial.
In the next tutorial we are going to convert
our training set and test set,
that we just imported previously.
And we're going to convert them into a matrix
where the lines are going to be users,
the colorings are going to be movies,
and the cells are going to be the ratings.
And we are going to create such a matrix
for the training set, and another one for the test set.
And besIDes, in each of these two matrices,
we want to include older users and older movies
from the original data set.
And if, in the training set that we just imported,
a user dIDn't rate a movie, well we'll put a zero
into the cell of the matrix that corresponds
to this user and that movie.
So to recap, we're gonna make two matrices,
one for the training set and one for the test set.
These matrices will have the same number of users
and the same number of movies, so they will
have the same number of lines
and the same number of columns.
And in these two matrices, each cell of indexes U, I,
where U is the user and I is the movie,
each cell U, I will get the rating of the movie I,
by the user U.
And if, this user U dIDn't rate the movie I,
we'll put a zero.
So that's what we're gonna make in the next tutorial
and we're gonna make a function to do this.
And so, as you understood, since these two matrices will
each one contain the total number of users
and the total number of movies,
well in this tutorial
we need to get this total number of users
and this total number of movies.
And so now, you might be wondering,
well it's easy to get the total number of users,
we just need to click on the training set,
scroll down, down to the bottom
and take 943 because it corresponds to the last user.
And same for the movie, to get the total number
of movie, we need to get this 1330
because it corresponds to the last movie.
Indeed, if I also open the test set and if I scroll down
to the end, well we can check that the total number
of users is still 943 because here,
in the test set, it goes up to 462.
So for the number of users it would be tempting
to say that the total numbers of users is 943.
So, okay, we could do that, but the code we are making
right now, I want it to be applicable
to the five train/test folds that are in the database.
Not only for this first one here, you want base
and you want test.
I want also this code to be applicable to
U-2, U-3, U-4, and U-5.
And why's that?
It's in case you wanna practice
and do k-fold cross-validation with these other sets.
And if, we put the number of users equal to 943,
well that won't work for the other sets
because the users and the movies
are not distrusted the same way.
So, not only we're gonna take the max of the users
in the training set, but that's not enough.
Because actually in these splits,
while it could be totally possible that the user that has
the highest user ID, could be in the test set.
As opposed to what we observe here where the highest
user ID's in the training set.
But actually the splits are random and so we could totally
have the highest user ID in the test set for one
of these pairs of training and test sets.
So that's why, now what we're gonna do
to get the total number of users and the total number
of movies, is take the maximum of the maximum user ID
in the training set and the maximum user ID in the test set.
And by doing that, we will be sure that we get the total
number of users and the total number of movies
that we will need in the next tutorial
to make this matrix of users,
in lines, and movies in columns.
So let's do this now that we get it,
it's going to be very simple.
I'm going back to Variable Explorer
and so we're going to make two new variables
nv_users which is going to be the total number of users
and nv_movies which is going to be
the total number of movies,
and so, as I just said, for the total number of users
we're gonna take the max of the maximum user ID
in the training set, and so that is the max of training set
and then in brackets we need to put the index
of the user column and that is index zero,
and we need to take all the lines
that we're gonna add here, column and comma.
So this training set column,0 is the first column
of the training set that it is the users,
all the users, and we're taking the max,
so we're definitely taking the maximum
user ID of this column.
So, okay, now we need to do the same for the test set,
because the maximum user ID might be in the test set.
So we're gonna do the same,
we're gonna take this maximum of the training set,
place that here and replace training set by test set.
Here we go.
Okay, and now we need to add something very important,
it's to force this maximum number here to be an integer.
Otherwise we'll get to narrow.
I actually experienced that.
So, we have to convert this number into an integer,
and to do this we're gonna use the int function
and put all these maximums inside this int function.
Okay, and now that should be okay.
I'm going to select this line, and execute,
and as expected, we get that the total number of users
is 943, but it might not work the same way
for the other train/test splits,
so we have to use this in case you want to apply this code
for the other training and test sets.
Okay, so now we're gonna do the same
for the total number of movies,
and actually this is going to be very simple.
We just need to copy this part of the line, copy,
and then paste that here, and, of course,
here what we're going to do is replace the index
of the column of the users here, that is zero
and here, by the index of the column of the movies.
And if we go back to our training set, or test set
we'll remember the column that corresponds to the movies
is the second column, and so it has index one.
So, what we seem to need to do, is to replace
the index zero here by one, and same for here,
we replace the index zero by one, and that's actually all.
We are ready to get the total number of movies.
Let's see if this was 1330, maybe that in the test set
some user rated a movie of higher index than this one.
If that's the case that will give
you even more motivation to do this.
Taking the max of the max.
So, we're gonna press OK, let's remember 1330,
I'm going to select this line,
and execute, and see the maximum movie ID is 1682.
So we had to take the max of the max
because we don't know if this movie ID
was in the training set, or in the test set,
and actually we can check it out.
We just need to select this to get the maximum movie ID
in the training set, and that is 1682.
So that's the one.
The maximum movie ID was in the training set,
and if you want to look at the maximum movie ID
in the test set, that was 1591.
So it could have been in the test set.
That's not the case for this first train/test split,
but it could be the other way
for the other train/test splits.
So that's absolutely necessary to do it this way
if you want to apply five-fold cross-validation,
which I would highly encourage
if you want to make your model even more robust
when applying some perimeter tuning next to it.
Alright, so, we get what we wanted
and so now we're ready to move onto the next step.
Which is to convert our training set and out test set
which so far has the format of the first column
being the users, the second column being the movies,
the third column being the ratings,
and the fourth column being the timestamps
into a matrix where the lines are the users,
the columns are the movies, and the timestamps are gone.
Because we don't care of the timestamps.
In each cell we'll contain the rating of the movie I
by the user U, and if the user U didn't rate
the movie I, we'll put a zero.
So, we'll do all this in the next tutorial,
and until then enjoy the learning!